# Huffman Part 2 (A)

## This is an assignment
In this assignment you will be implementing Huffman encoding which requires you to work with binary trees. You can also leverage the work you did in HW13, but as compared to HW13, in this homework **do not exclude newline character**.


<strong>Please read the entire file and the comments in the files provided before you ask any question.</strong><br>
<strong>You should write your own Makefile to test the code.</strong>


# Learning Goals
You will learn to
* Create Huffman tree
* Work with binary trees
* Prefix/Preorder traversal of binary tree
* Work with linked list


# Functions you need to complete
In this exercise, you have to complete six functions - `CountFrequency`, `SortFrequency` in `frequency.c`; `TreeNodeCreate`, `TreeMerge`, `PrefixTreePrint`,`CleanTree` in `tree.c`; `ListNodeCreate`, `ListBuild`, `ListInsert`, `CleanList`,`BuildHuffmanTree` in `list_node.c` and `main()` in `pa14.c`.
**Do not hardcode the name of the files in your code**
1. `CountFrequency` - Counts the frequencies of the characters from input file and stores in the frequency array.
**PS: As compared to HW13, in this homework do not exclude newline character**
2. `SortFrequency` - Sort function for sorting frequencies. Sort the frequencies in the ascending order.
if frequencies are same then the character with lower ascii value should be first.
3. `TreeNodeCreate` -  This function creates a tree node from the input and returns the TreeNode \*.
4. `TreeMerge` - This function merges two TreeNode\*s by creating a new TreeNode\*. It uses HUFF\_ELEM(defined in `tree.h`, if you do understand this please see Huffman encoding algorithm) as `data` value for new TreeNode and sum of the frequencies of two TreeNode\*s becomes the value of frequency variable of the new TreeNode\*.
5. `PrefixTreePrint` - This should print all the characters and their respective frequencies in pre-order . Use `PrintSingleHelper` to print the values of single tree node.**Do not worry about level for this assignment, keep it any value.**
6. `CleanTree` -  This function cleans up the memory allocated for the tree
7. `ListNodeCreate` - This function creates a list node from the input and returns the ListNode \*
8. `ListBuild` - This function builds the linked list in sorted order of frequencies, sorting order followed same as in `SortFrequency` function. Input to this function is array of CharFreq.
9. `ListInsert` - It inserts the single ListNode \* to the list such that lower frequency comes first. if the frequencies of the nodes are same, then insert the node after already inserted node i.e. new node should come later.
10. `CleanList` - This function cleans the whole linked list.
11. `BuildHuffmanTree` - This is the function that takes head of linked list as input and builds a huffman tree. This function combines all the nodes of a linked list and returns a single ListNode which has whole huffman tree build into it.  
12. `main()` - In this assignment, your main function has the following the specifications.
	1. argc: If argc is not 2, you should print "Wrong arguments\n" and return `EXIT_FAILURE`.
	2. argv[1]: name of the input file. eg. test1.txt. If you cannot open file then print "Wrong arguments\n" and return `EXIT_FAILURE`

# Function given to you - DO NOT modify this functions.
You will call the below function to Print character and frequency.

1. `PrintSingleHelper` - This function takes `TreeNode *` as input and prints the `data` and `freq` value of the input `TreeNode*` on terminal. Do not modify this function but use it from `PrefixTreePrint` function.

---------------------
# Testing your code
Following are the files we provide:
1. `pa13.c` - main file for this assignment.
2. `frequency.h` - Header file, which has definition for the functions and structures you need in this assignment. Do not modify this file.
3. `frequency.c` - Define your functions in this file. You can use any helper function you need but do not put them in the header file. Do not modify the functions that we have given you.
2. `list_node.h` - Header file, which has definition for the functions and structures for list node you need in this assignment. Do not modify this file.
3. `list_node.c` - Define your functions in this file. You can use any helper function you need but do not put them in the header file. Do not modify the functions that we have given you.
2. `tree.h` - Header file, which has definition for the functions and structures you need in this assignment. Do not modify this file.
3. `tree.c` - Define your functions in this file. You can use any helper function you need but do not put them in the header file. Do not modify the functions that we have given you.
4. `input/` - folder containing input test files
5. `expected/` - This directory contains the expected output as generated by the commands shown
	1. `expectedSimple1.txt` - ./pa14 input/simple1.txt > expected/expectedSimple1.txt
	2. `expectedSimple2.txt` - ./pa14 input/simple2.txt > expected/expectedSimple2.txt
	3. `expectedTest1.txt` - ./pa14 input/test1.txt > expected/expectedTest1.txt
	4. `expectedTest2.txt` - ./pa14 input/test2.txt > expected/expectedTest2.txt
	5. `expectedWiki1.txt` - ./pa14 input/wiki1.txt > expected/expectedWiki1.txt
	6. `expectedWiki2.txt` - ./pa14 input/wiki2.txt > expected/expectedWiki2.txt
	7. `expectedWiki3.txt` - ./pa14 input/wiki3.txt > expected/expectedWiki3.txt
	8. `valgrind.log` - valgrind --tool=memcheck --leak-check=full --verbose --log-file=valgrind.log ./pa14 input/wiki1.txt > /dev/null


# Checking for memory errors
You should also run./pa13 with arguments under valgrind. To do that, you have to use, for example, the following command:
```
valgrind --tool=memcheck --verbose --leak-check=full --log-file=valgrind.log ./pa14 test/wiki1.txt > /dev/null
```

Note that you should use other input arguments to extensively test your function. If you follow the instructions and keep the malloc and free functions in the right place, you should not have memory problems in this assignment.


# Submitting Your code
** This is a programming assignment, so you would have to submit the code on Blackboard.**

The command to create zip file is as follows:
```

zip HW14.zip pa14.c frequency.c list_node.c tree.c

```
<strong>You will not get any credits if the submitted file is not zipped</strong>

The **only** way to submit homework is through Blackboard.

The instructor will **never** accept any requestion for exception "*my
submission is only one minute late*".  It is your responsibility to
meet the deadline.  You are strongly encouraged to submit at least ten
minutes before the deadline because submission may take time.

If there is a campus-wide problem (such as network outage or the
Blackboard server is down), the deadline will be extended for the
entire class. If the problem is specific to yourself (for example,
your computer crashes), the deadline will not be extended for
you.

**DO NOT** send your code by email. Your code will not be graded
  if it is sent by email.

The teaching staff is strictly prohibited to look at files on your
computer (or your Purdue account) for grading. Thus, **NEVER** say "I
finished before the deadline but I forgot to submit".  **NEVER** say "I have
not made any change after the submission deadline." because the
teaching staff is not allowed to look at your files that have not been
submitted through Blackboard.


# Grading
If your program has any compilation error or warning (remember to use
`gcc -std=c99 -g -Wall -Wshadow --pedantic -Wvla -Werror`), you will
receive zero in this assignment.

In absolutely no circumstance can the teaching staff modify your
program for grading.  You cannot say, "If you change this, my program
works." If your program misses a semicolon and cannot compile, you
will receive zero.  Your score depends on what is submitted, nothing
else.

**The grading test cases will be made available along with the grades**


### Tentative Grading scheme:
1. `CountFrequency` - 2.5
2. `SortFrequency` - 2.5
3. `TreeNodeCreate` - 10
4. `TreeMerge` -  10
5. `PrefixTreePrint` - 15
6. `CleanTree` - 5
7. `ListNodeCreate` - 5
8. `ListBuild` - 10
9. `ListInsert` - 10
10. `BuildHuffmanTree` - 20
11. `CleanList` - 5
12. `main` - 5
